# SLAM
The SLAM packages consists of two launch files, two scripts, and three config files.

**Launch scripts**

1. `msg_MID360_launch.py`

This launch script is used to communicate with the Livox MID-360 LiDAR, and is used to publish pointcloud2 data with 10Hz.


2. `rtab.launch.py`

    This launch script starts five nodes:
    - `livox_driver_launch`: Executes the `msg_MID360_launch.py` and publishes the data from the LiDAR.
    - `rgbd_sync_node`: Used to syncronize the depth image and RGB image from the camera.
    - `static_transform_publisher_1`: Creates static transform between the ZED2i camera and base_link, defined as (x, y, z, yaw, pitch, roll).
    - `static_transform_publisher_2`: Creates static transform between the Livox LiDAR camera and base_link defined as (x, y, z, yaw, pitch, roll).
    - `rtabmap_slam`: Performs SLAM.
<br><br>

1. `path_node.py`: The node listens to the pose topic from the ZED2i camera, and appends and publishes this pose if it has moved a set distance, which is then used for the `map_filter_node.py`.

2. `map_filter_node.py`: The node listens to the occupancy grid generated by RTAB-Map and the pose published by `path_node.py`, and cuts the map with a cone to only extract the area which has been seen by the ZED2i camera. This area is then published to a new filtered map, used by frontier exploration.
   

**Config files**<br>
Four configuration files are used in the package:

1. `build.sh`: A shell script that automates the build process for the project. It contains commands to compile code, install dependencies, and set up the environment.

2. `common.yaml`: A YAML file that stores shared configuration settings used across different components of the project.

3. `MID360_config.json`: A JSON file containing configuration parameters for the Livox MID-360 LiDAR and the IP of the LiDAR and host PC.

4. `zed2i.yaml`: A YAML configuration file for the ZED2i stereo camera. It includes parameters like resolution, frame rate, depth distance.



























